although Mary doctor and poet Yuri
Zhivago falls in love with a political
activist wife and experiences hardships
during the Bolshevik Revolution in 1965
David Lean's epic romantic classic
Doctor Zhivago
from the most widely acclaimed novel of
our generation Metro Goldwyn
presents David Lean's builders of Boris
Pasternak's dr. Zhivago the spectacle of
armies changing history
pick up a grand romantic age giving way
to a new and of the old lovers when
Doctor Zhivago came out in 1965 it got
all the nominations that I think a movie
can get maybe it might have missed a few
categories but that really speaks out to
how great the movie is it's very few
flaws with any and in my opinion it's
almost one of the closest things to the
perfect movie that you can get although
it lost all the major categories to the
sound of music and won all of the
technical Awards or at least many of
them the casting is near-perfect you
have Omar Sharif who plays dr. Zhivago
and the way that he's directed by David
Lean is is almost I think the the best
way that you could have gone about it
the the story is not exactly told from
Chicago's point of view however he is
the one who experiences everything and
although at the time Sharif was very
nervous about the performance that he
was giving because it's such a grand
scale movie the movie is over three
hours long with an intermission it
frightens Sharif because he didn't feel
like he was giving it is all but he was
directed to to react and and to
experience because not everything is
happening to him everything is what he
sees I think because of that his
performance becomes kind of underrated
and he didn't even get in a nomination
for the for the role which I don't think
awards for everything but but still it's
kind of nice to recognize this great
great talent moving along you go to Rod
Steiger who was the only American actor
in the main cast which is kind of
interesting and he didn't think that
David Lean liked him because he took
certain liberties in scenes to kind of
get a surprise reaction out of his
actors particularly Julie Christie whom
his character had a relationship in the
movie moving along we go to Julie
Christie who was a relative newcomer I
don't know if this was her first film
but beautiful actress beautiful
performance she really adds to in my
opinion she is the one
almost the one good thing
to look forward to in such a struggling
time period in Russian history not to
say that Sharif's wife is character's
wife Geraldine Chaplin who is Charlie
Chaplin's daughter wasn't a dutiful and
great character there it's that it's
kind of what makes the movie so great as
a love story is that you know the two
struggling you know the love triangle
that that Siobhan finds himself in with
his wife at home and his love interest
during the Revolution there are two
great beautiful beautiful characters who
you know you almost don't know who you
want Chicago to end up with and of
course the cast is topped off with Alec
Guinness who doesn't play the biggest
role in this but he is the narrator of
the story and David Lean described him
as his good luck charm if you look at
all of lenes greatest movies bridge on
the river kwai and Lawrence of Arabia
you'll find that Alec Guinness plays
great parts in both movies and both in
all three movies Chicago bridge really
require and Lawrence Arabia our great
great epic classics which brings us to
our director David Lean who is really
just responsible for everything of
course you know like what every great
director is he's the the father of the
project and I'm gonna go out and say it
David Lean in my opinion is the greatest
visual director you'll ever see just the
the imagery that he captures and the
stories that he tells just by turning
the camera on is just it's it's almost
unbelievable in particular and this I
think also attributes to what makes it
such a great love story as well as
making it such a great epic story is the
fact that every love scene that you get
in the movie is shot in an uncomfortable
surrounding it's almost like you wonder
how could a romantic moment come out of
this dank surrounding yet
every time he films a battle scene it's
almost it almost looks beautiful it's
almost beautifully shot which kind of
makes you all so uncomfortable without
knowing why and that just that's just in
a tribute to how great and how ahead of
his time I think David Lean really was
and he's so consistently visual it's and
you know if you look at his greatest
movies such as Lawrence of Arabia and
Bridge River Kwai you'll see what I'm
talking about with how he just captures
grand-scale
visual scenery and just he is the master
of the epic movie that it's epic is a
term that's thrown out a lot especially
in today's entertainment but if you want
to see epic see a David Lean film and
Doctor Zhivago is a great example of
what I'm talking about the writing I
think speaks for itself more so just the
story in the subject matter the story
was based on a book and that book was
banned almost all over Russia and in
many countries in Europe because of its
strong subject matter particularly
because the book was written around the
time of the Bolshevik Revolution and we
won't get into history but it was very
touchy time period in in Russian history
one more thing I feel like I should have
to talk about before I wrap up is the
music score which is one of my favorites
and just most of David Lean's scores
particularly what I'm thinking about is
also Lawrence of Arabia are just there
so I don't know there's such a memorable
part of the movie not to mention the
fact that they really honor the story
that's being told if you understand what
I'm saying
particularly Lara's theme in Doctor
Zhivago really adds to the romance and
the sort of sort of forbidden romance I
guess you could say of the movie there's
just so much to talk about with dr.
Zhivago I feel I can go on for hours so
why don't you let me know what you
thought of the movie how did it stand up
in terms of being a great love story
being a great epic
and did you notice all the brilliance
I'll go ahead and say brilliance of
David Lean and that's pretty much it
you